---
title: Introduction to juggling
date: 2012-10-26
---

How to learn to jungle in three easy steps.

### 1. Throwing from hand to hand

The first step to juggling is working your hand eye coronation. Start with one
ball, and practice throwing it from your right hand to your left. Try to throw
the ball at the same height every time. The less your have to move your hands
the better.

Do this until catching the ball is easy and your rarely drop the ball.

### 2. Throwing two balls

Its time to graduate to two balls. Many people when the start to jungle try
throwing both balls at the same time. This is wrong and doesn't help you learn
to juggle. To properly practice with two balls start with one ball in each
hand. Start just like you did before and toss the first ball from your right
hand to your left. A second before the ball reaches your left hand throw the
left ball up in the air. Catch the ball in your left hand and don't worry
about catching the ball in the air.

Make sure that the ball you throw in the air goes up and not sideways. Again,
repeat this motion until you aren't dropping any balls. When your comfortable,
try catching the second ball in the air with your right hand. It may be
difficult at first to get the timing down, but with a short amount of practice
you'll find your rhythm.

### 3. Juggling

Juggling with three balls is the biggest mental hurdle, but believe it or not
by now you have all the skills you need to juggle. Start now with three balls,
two in your right hand and one in your left. Start as you always have throwing
one ball from your right to your left. Again, right before it lands throw your
left ball to your right. Wrapping it all together, you are going to repeat
exactly what you just did, but mirrored. Right before your left ball reaches
your right hand throw the last ball to the left just as you did in the
beginning. Congratulations your juggling.

Wash, rinse, and repeat these motions trying to juggling more and more times in
a row. From here its pure practice until you can juggle like a pro.
