---
title: Leaving Lattice
date: 2022-05-02
---
Today I am no longer a full-time employee of the company I started,
[Lattice][lattice]. Unlike other stories or articles you may have read, this
was not due to me being pushed out, or the company going bankrupt, nor _really_
me being burnt out. In fact Lattice is doing great, far better than I could
have ever dreamed when Jack, my cofounder, and I started the company a little
over 6.5 years ago. We have over 4000 customers, 700,000 users, 600+ of our own
employees, and our last valuation came in around [$3B dollars][last raise]. And
yet, I still chose to leave and no longer work on Lattice full-time. I figured
some people may find my **why** interesting, but writing this may also be for
my own closure. Who knows.

## Lattice

If you don't know, [Lattice][lattice] is a HR tech company started by myself
and my cofounder [Jack Altman][jack] back in October of 2015. We had met
working together at another startup, Teespring, and saw that company grow from
~10 FTEs to ~400 FTEs only 2.5 years later. We learned just how hard it is for
fast growing organizations to foster and then maintain a great culture. As well
as how critical it was for success. We asked ourselves, "Could we fix
Teespring's issues with technology?" and that became the basis for all of
Lattice.

## Starting a company

Everyone starts a company for different reasons. Some people get obsessed over
an idea, others do it for the potential wealth they could generate, while
others may be swept into it by a friend or college who may be motivated by one
of those first two. I started Lattice because I felt I had something to prove
to myself.

My father is a serial entrepreneur. He's started half a dozen businesses at
this point. Some of them very successful; others spectacular failures. But
growing up I didn't see much of my father. He worked all day, came home to join
us for dinner, then holed himself up in his office to continue working for the
rest of the evening.

The best way to get my father's attention would be to ask him about his work.
At that point he would light up and go on for an hour or two about exactly what
he was working on, the science, physics, businesses strategies employed, and so
forth. I grew up listening to my father tell many stories about his escapades.
Taking on far bigger businesses than his and winning. Creating then applying
trade secrets to transform the markets he operated in.

Growing up with all of this, always looking up to my father but also never
feeling like I had his approval or attention, gave me a chip on my shoulder. If
he could do it all, could I? And if I was successful, maybe I could earn his
respect.

## Growing a businesses

The first year of Lattice was a lot of work, then a lot of existential dread,
and finally a lot of fun. For the first 7 months it was _just_ Jack and I. Jack
would handle all of the businesses bits and I built the entirety of the
product. While we didn't kill ourselves my any means, that meant programming
for 9+ hours a day 6 days a week. 4 months into it we had done a lot of work,
but still had no customers and that's where the existential dread came from.

I very vividly remember sitting with Jack on the grass outside and we asked
each other if we were just wasting our lives on this project. Both of us had
other opportunities that would pay well and be a whole lot less work. We didn't
have anything to show for the 4 months of effort we had just put in. Plus,
there wasn't really any end in sight. But we ultimately decided that we were
going to give it another couple months and see what happens. I'm glad we did.
As soon, after we got one of our first customers, everything changed.

There was a night and day difference between having customers and not. Suddenly
we had people who cared about Lattice other than just Jack and I. And they were
paying us! Instead of Jack and I just theorizing what would be a good idea to
build, we could just ask out customers. Or even better they would tell us
exactly what sucked about our product and we could fix it. It felt great, made
us feel like we had a purpose again, and not just floating in space. Soon there
was too much work for just Jack and I to do it all and we had to hire others.
And that's when it became a lot of fun.

I love Latticians ([demonym][demonym] of people who work at Lattice). The
people who are attracted to our mission, "Make work meaningful", and want to
solve human issues all day are the exact type of people I love being around.
Everyone is genuinely humble, just want to do right by one another and our
customers, and are motivated to do good work. And some of our earliest hires
also ended being some of my best friends. The work we did back then didn't
suddenly get easier, in fact in many ways it got harder once we had employees,
but at least there was now others to commiserate over the work together. We
would have a long day at the office, but then be able to go across the street
to a bar to unwind. Overcoming shared struggles felt amazing and made me feel
like I had found my community.

By the end of 2019 we had gone through 3 offices and had grown to ~125 people.
But then something would happen that would change my relationship with Lattice.

## The pandemic

In March of 2020 we were one of the first businesses to go fully remote. And
not by our choice. One day we showed up to the office and it was just locked
with note saying that a staff member of the office had gotten COVID and the
office was shut down until further notice. It never opened up again for us.

Some people love working from home. It gives them the flexibility they want, it
allows them to see their families more, and it saves them a ton of time no
longer needing to commute. But as a single guy that truly didn't have much
going on outside of work, it felt like I was being ripped away from the
community that I loved so much. Zoom was just not the same as being in the
office together. And if I didn't work directly with someone there was suddenly
no reason for me to ever see or interact with them. Without the people side of
things all I was really left with was the work itself.

## The work

In YC, one of the things they drill into you is that the two tasks you should
prioritizing over everything else is:

1. Talking to customers
2. Shipping solutions to their problems

If you're not doing one of those two things you should either not do it or keep
to a minimum. Thankfully, those are the two things I love doing more than
anything else. Talking to people who use the thing you build is awesome and
super energizing. And I also love building things, especially if they make
someone's life better. And even better if they then pay you because they like
the things you've built.

But as Lattice became bigger and more successful, it became harder to _just_ do
those two things. Once you're a successful organization you need to start
focusing on road mapping, prioritizing, getting cross-functional alignment,
driving technical initiatives, dealing with interpersonal issues, hiring (oh so
much hiring), and so much more. None of these are unimportant tasks. In fact
they're super important so that the actual people doing the _real_ work, the
ICs, can mostly focus on talking to customers and shipping solutions. But
I realized these new responsibilities were not the things that drove personal
satisfaction for myself.

Now you may be starting to say, "Well Eric, aren't you a cofounder? Can't you
work on whatever you want? Can't you _just_ work on talking to customers and
shipping solutions if that's what you want to do?". And you're most likely
correct. If I was better at organization crafting maybe I could have created
a situation like that. I know I tried many times to do just that. But in each
situation I eventually (and probably rightfully) kept getting pulled back out
to work on higher level issues. As cofounder and CTO there are just a class of
issues I cannot turn a blind eye to.

And so I kept finding myself in these cycles where I was no longer satisfied or
happy with the work I was doing.

## Practicing what we preach

At Lattice we often talk about "Ikigai". "Ikigai" is a Japanese word
[miss-applied to a Spanish astrology concept][ikigai]. But entomology aside,
what we're referring to is having your work be in alignment with your purpose
and source of happiness. We talk about if we find we're no longer in alignment
we need to change someone about our environment. Maybe that's as easy as taking
a break, but often it requires a lot more than that. Sometimes it changing
projects or teams. Other times it's trying out a lateral move to a different
position within the same organization. But we also tell our employees,
sometimes it's Lattice itself which is the source of lack of satisfaction and
that is _okay_. Its okay to no longer be satisfied with the work you do at
Lattice and to want to seek your next opportunity elsewhere. That is the
natural cycle of employment and something we're here to support our employees
through that transition.

But what I probably didn't realize when I was speaking about this over the past
few years was that it would one day apply to myself as well.

While I'm incredibly proud of what Lattice has become and the impact it has on
the world, it's become time for me to move on to the next part of my journey.

## What's Next

I'll still be on Lattice's board and will continue to advise, especially when
it comes to the larger strategy initiatives, but I'm actually starting a new
company. I'm excited to do it all over again a revisit those early days. I'm
going to be building something very different than Lattice. Now that I better
understand myself and my motivations, I'm going to creating a community based
products. As well as combine a few other of my passions into one cohesive
business.

If you're interested in online communities, video platforms, the creator
economy, or [VTubers][vtuber], and want to join me on this next adventure
please reach out! I can be reached via Twitter DMs or my email is pretty easy
to find online 😁

This ended up being a bit more of a ramble than I was expecting, but I hope
this was still helpful or interesting for you. Thanks for giving it a read!

[lattice]: https://lattice.com
[last raise]: https://techcrunch.com/2022/01/19/lattice-raises-175m-more-at-a-3b-valuation-for-its-people-management-platform
[jack]: https://twitter.com/jaltma
[demonym]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demonym
[ikigai]: https://ikigaitribe.com/ikigai/podcast07/
[vtuber]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VTuber
